---
layout: post
title: TRAMP Travelers Ready-Made Appliance for Maintaining Privacy
date: 2015-07-23
categories: gpg bash
---


I have been thinking a lot about how to simplify my travel digital
security practices. I just found the README for a tool that I started
scraping together a year ago and put aside to focus on other things. The
start of the GPG scripts can be found on
[github](https://gist.github.com/elationfoundation/eed533a2f8ecc648c0d1)
for the interested. This post is only to provide ideas for others who
might be thinking about simplifying their travel security kits.

TRAMP: Travelers Ready-Made Appliance for Maintaining Privacy
-------------------------------------------------------------

TRAMP is a set of tools for rapidly creating temporary digital travel
support.

This toolkit was built to respond to my need for constant digital
communication with the requirement that when I travel I do not put my
digital personal or work infrastructure in extra danger.

The TRAMP kit consists of four parts:
-------------------------------------

### Mail-In-A-Box

A custom fork of Mail-In-A-Box that is installed on a VPS while I am
traveling. This server houses all of my travel infrastructure including
a server for my temporary travel e-mail address, webmail client, rss
server, forwarding sent mail to the main e-mail address, and creating
user config files for my devices. It is a throw-away server that is
closed upon my return.

### TRAMP-Pi

A set of scripts that set up a Raspberry-PI to act as a IMAP client that
downloads e-mail, sends custom auto-responses to senders, and forwards
the subject line and sender to the travel e-mail address.

### TRAMP-Setup

A command line wizard that creates the files needed for the travel-kit.
It gathers data that should travel with me including specified e-mail
contacts, public keys, and calendars. It creates a custom travel GPG
key, auto-responder e-mail, and sign's that e-mail with my current GPG
key to authenticate it before transfer to the TRAMP-pi.

### TRAMP-Kit

The custom debian image setup used to populate a travel netbook that I
can bring with me as my primary computer when traveling.
